1
	Sublime Text
		Sublime text is a proprietary (closed-source) text-editor written in C++. The application can be run on any modern operating system with a GUI, and it uses a Python application programming interface; note that the text editor natively supports programming and markup languages. Sublime Text can be tricky to configure, as there is extensive access and customizability available in the JSON configuration files.  Additionally, a third-party package manager is required to install plugins. Sublime Text aims to be code-oriented providing syntax highlighting, powerful search and navigation tools, and an extensive third party community. It can be difficult to say what an industry standard is when it comes to text editors, but it's accepted as a common alternative to nearly every conventional program that has existed for similar purposes. The price of Sublime Text is $70.

2
	Vim - 
		Vim started as a clone of the vi project on Unix; it was first released publically open-sourced for free in 1991. Originally written in C, Vim is meant to be used in the command terminal for text editing, and does not have a GUI outside of the terminal. There are some barriers to entry with Vim, as the key control schemes are not intuitive for many (though they just take getting used to). Vim has become cross-platform over the years, and holds extensive features in its customizability - both because of its accessibility location being in the terminal and because of the nature of the program. The community continues to support actively for it, and the customizability of the plugins feels limitless at times.  Vim has been accepted as an industry standard for a long time. Though the application doesn't exactly support languages and the features that come with an IDE/editor that does, many of the pieces of the functionality can be configured through the plugin system. 

3
	Atom -
		According to Atom's website, "Atom is a text editor that's modern approachable, yet hackable to the core - a tool you can customize to do anything but also use productively without ever touching a config file."  Atom is a text editor (that can also be used as an IDE) that was developed in an open-source format by the people who brought us Github. The system was meant to be very compatible with any conventional operating system; Atom was written using CoffeeScript and Less. I've used it occasionally in the past, and the greatest benefits I've gotten from the text editor are in its easily adaptable format that works great straight out of the installation.  For instance, the native Git version control system integration is very simple to set up, and the 'Git Diff' and 'View on Github' submenus within the Packages menu are fast shortcuts.  Opening and closing multiple levels of folders is very responsive and I enjoy the ability to add copies of project folders at various root levels.  Atom is certainly accepted as an industry standard, as some of the people who worked on it have significant software projects in their history. As of Atom 1.51, the supported languages are, "HTML, CSS, Less, Sass, GitHub Flavored Markdown, C/C++, C#, Go, Java, Objective-C, JavaScript, JSON, CoffeeScript, Python, PHP, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, shell script, Clojure, Perl, Git, Make, Property List (Apple), TOML, XML, YAML, Mustache, Julia & SQL." The project is free.